# YUNA Project

<pre>
Y U NO Agree? -- щ(ﾟДﾟщ)  
Distributed System Project  
Consensus Protocol
</pre>

## Requirements

In order to run the program the _Erlang_ runtime is needed. The runtime is
packaged for the major distros:

*   In a `deb` based system (Ubuntu, Debian) use `apt-get install erlang`
    with root privileges;

*   In an Red-Hat based system (Fedora, CentOS) use `yum install erlang`
    after enabling the
    [`epel` repositories](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL).

    -   Warning: for the moment the `epel` repository provides the 5.6.5
        version of the runtime. The application won't work with it;

    -   Tested to work with versions 5.7.4 and 5.8.4.

The software can also be obtained from the
[official website](http://www.erlang.org/download.html).

## Basic usage instructions

The program can be launched directly by going in the `code` directory and
launching the _Erlang_ interpreter as follows:

    $ erl -pa ebin/
    Erlang R14B03 (erts-5.8.4) [source] [64-bit] [smp:2:2] [rq:2]
        [async-threads:0] [hipe] [kernel-poll:false]

    Eshell V5.8.4  (abort with ^G)
    1> make:all([load]).
    ...
    2> application:start(yuna).

Note that all commands are required to be terminated by `.` (dot sign).

During the program run, the shell will be displaying output from the
nodes, up to the point in which the _consensus_ has been reached. Using
the `q().` command you can exit the shell.

The execution will produce a bunch of statistic files, which can be
crunched by gnuplot launched the following command line from the `code`
directory:

    gnuplot -e 'prefix="statfile"' priv/plot_stats.gnuplot

The command will produce a _pdf_ file named `statfile.pdf`.

## Documentation

See the _report/report.pdf_ file. The documentation can be re-generated by
running `make` in the report directory.
